## Analysis pipeline

Changed repository name - this pipeline was initially being put together as part of the prosper pipeline, it is now being developed as a tool across multiple projects. 
Version 1 of bpipe pipeline for analysis of genomic data. 

# Requirements
Bpipe is installed (link to latest version available at docs.bpipe.org)
Tools that bpipe uses:
* [bpipe](https://github.com/ssadedin/bpipe) - also requires Java
* FastQC
* cutadapt
* BWA
* SAMtools
* picard
* VCFtools
* VarScan2
* BEDTools
* Perl
* R

Currently using a module system where tools need to be loaded prior to the execution of each step. 

# Running

Assuming there is a data directory at the same level as your src directory, then execute by moving to the data directory, and running:

```
bpipe ../src/pipeline tumour_1.fastq.gz tumour_2.fastq.gz normal_1.fastq.gz normal_2.fastq.gz
```

# Current Steps


# Todo/notes

The report generation step requires a file in the data directory called metadata.txt, containing lists of genes. Currently, a single list is selected and filtered for during report generation.
Awaiting confirmation that the current list can go public. 

Command to run: 

```
bpipe minimalPipe-******
```

All bpipe stages are contained in the file "pipeline". generateBpipes2.py generates a minimal pipeline file for each patient, loading the main pipeline file, defining the data location, the comparisons to be made and the actual workflow. 

Todo:
Pipeline:
    - Workflow needs to be generated from a file.
    - There needs to be a script or script component that checks the singularity instances. That they are
        a) built
        b) present in the correct directory. 
    - Running via Singularity containers has been added for cutadapt and bwa. Needs to be added to remaining pipeline stages.
    - Report generation needs to be tested.
    - Sample data for unit tests need to constructed. 
    - Unit tests need to be constructed.
    - Centralised (cross-project) location for some datasources (i.e. reference genome, bed files etc) need to be defined for simplifying use on NeSI
    - Rename pipeline file to something less generic.


Report generation:
    - Currently picks up the sample name from the name of the first file input. It picks up everything prior to the first underscore and uses that. i.e. in the example above, the final report would list the filename as normal
    - Location of hg19 genome is currently hardcoded in a single project directory, i.e. the TestData directory. Not a problem, just something to be aware of/not the best form.
    - Filter parameters should be defined/placed in a file at pipeline generation step. Currently filter levels are buried in R code of filePair.R and generateReport.R
    - filePairs.R and filePairsSomatic.R really need to be condensed to a single step. The only difference between them is a flag stating somatic/germline and some filter settings. Also results in the VCF files being read in twice.
    - filePairs.R and filePairsSomatic.R should be renamed to something more reflective of function.
    - some of the files being generated by the R scripts are not being located properly, resulting in the untidy top level directory. This needs to be fixed. i.e. the final resulting html file is not going to the results directory. 
    - Some specific instructions on how to include the insert size selection AWK scripts need to be compiled.
    - Add mutational signatures, currently work as individual R scripts, need to be incorporated into the final report.


